---
layout: post
title:      "THE SWITCH FROM MACHINES TO SOFTWARE"
date:       2020-03-27 17:12:37 -0400
permalink:  the_switch_from_machines_to_software
---


My interest in software and coding originated many many years ago. I remember seeing friends in high school take computer science courses, or see others actually working in web development before they could even drive. While I definitely wanted to learn how to code, it was a daunting task and it seemed more important at the time to pursue my extracurriculars and school academics so that I could get into a good college. I pushed through high school learning a lot about math and physics, and would occassionaly try and mess around with codecademy or something else, but I was never able to get any traction. When it came time to pick a college major, I felt I needed to pick something I knew that I was good at. Even though I was interested in Computer Science, I had never done it before. How was I to know if I would be any good at it, or if I would like it down the road. So I decided to make the safe choice, and since I loved math and physics I decided to pursue mechanical engineering.

I got my first real tast of coding during my freshman year of college during my intro to programming course where we worked in C. Even though C is very difficult, finicky, and can be quite limiting compared to more modern languages, I loved it. The problem solving aspect of it was amazing. However, the rest of my class load was so large that I didn't have the time to pursue this interest after that intro course. Later in college I would get to use other coding languages to try and do some other amazing things. I got to use MATLAB (a very very math heavy language) to start to meld my physics savy with my coding interest. I would use it to model things like the performance of an engine, or even start to use it to make graphical user interfaces. Eventually, I would work one on one with a professor doing research and heavily utilize MATLAB. The goal of the research was to animate bipedal locomotion (AKA running). This was by far one of the most challenging tasks I have ever been given, but I loved every second of it. While, my animation would only be able to take a couple of steps, it was still very satisfying. By the time I started to realize that maybe I was in the wrong program, it seemed like I was in too deep to switch.

Once I graduated I went through a couple mechanical engineering internships and even some grad school, the whole time wondering if I should try and make the switch to software. I remember the exact moment I learned what a coding bootcamp was, and I was immediately drawn to the incredible challenge and pace that it described. But, I had gone through four years of school and still felt like I hadn't given mechanical engineering a real chance. So I pushed on and eventually got an offer doing what I thought was my dream job in mechanical engineering. I started working at a small shop that would design and build machines used in the manufacturing industry. I would be totally in charge of the whole project and would make massive machines used to make all sorts of things. Unfortunately, it still did not give me that same rush or challenge that I was looking for. I stayed there for a year, without really being satisfied with my work before I knew that I needed to make the shift.

So here I am, ready for the beautiful world of sofware. Everything about it seems to draw me in. Beyond anything else I love the opportunities that it gives everyone. You have the ability to make countless things any day with code, and everything you need to know is at our fingertips, probably one google away. You don't need a giant factory or a bunch of supplies. I just need some determination and my keyboard to make anything that I can think of.
